Now, in this course section
we learned a lot about the basics of Flutter
and one thing you probably noticed is that if you're using
a recent version of Flutter to be precise
a version greater than Flutter 2,
you got deprecation warnings for the buttons we used.
And I did talk about that in the lectures
where I introduced those buttons already.
Now, in this course,
we are going to work with those buttons a lot.
And with that, I mean the RaisedButton, FlatButton
and also the OutlineButton
which is a never button, which you could use
even though we haven't used it up to this point.
We're going to work with those button widgets a lot
and since this course was recorded prior
to this deprecation, I do use these old buttons in quotes,
in this course.
Now, if you follow along with this course,
you probably have the best course experience
and it's easiest to follow along if you stick
to these deprecated buttons to these old buttons
so to say, because those buttons despite being deprecated
are being used in a lot of projects all over the world,
you will see them in a lot of our resources
and tutorials as well.
And using them as not wrong, you can use them,
they are here and they will also stick around
for many months to come.
If you're getting annoyed by this deprecation warning here,
in Visual Studio Code, if you you're getting annoyed
by it as strike through effect, you can go to the settings
and disabled that fact there by searching
for deprecated and disabling this show deprecated option.
That's an alternative, you don't have to do that,
but you can do that if you wanna follow along
with those existing buttons.
But of course you can also switch,
you can switch to the new equivalents
for these buttons and follow along with these.
That is all the fine and of course, a bit more future-proof.
In the rest of this lecture,
I will therefore show you how you can switch
from the old to the new buttons
especially when you also have some styling on those buttons.
And with that, I'm talking about the RaisedButton,
the FlatButton and the OutlineButton
other buttons like floating action buttons
or IconButtons are not deprecated.
It's these three buttons which are deprecated.
And hence, if you use RaisedButton, FlatButton
or OutlineButton in your code,
and you are using Flutter 2, you might see this strike
through effect here in Visual Studio Code,
which signals that you should not use that button anymore,
though I will come back to this should not use part
in a couple of seconds again.
Now the most important message right away
is that even though you should not use them anymore,
you can absolutely still use them.
If I would run this simple demo app here,
which really just renders these three buttons,
I can still see those three buttons
on the screen and they do work, I can press them,
I got no error, everything works.
I get my log outputs down there
from pressing these buttons.
So I can continue using them
and I don't have to change all of them right now.
I can do this later in the future
and indeed you will still see these old buttons
in quotes get used a lot in other resources
in example apps which you find out there
and in existing code basis of existing projects.
That's another reason why you might not wanna switch
instantly because you will still find a lot of resources
out there which do use these older buttons.
Of course, the alternative to sticking
to these buttons is to migrate to their new equivalents
because these old buttons were deprecated
because there were new button widgets introduced
which you should use instead.
And we're now going to migrate to these newer buttons
step-by-step over the next minutes.
And let's start with the RaisedButton.
The RaisedButton will be replaced by an ElevatedButton.
Now for the moment, we'll have to remove color
and text color because the ElevatedButton
does not support these arguments,
but if we would have a button without any custom colors,
then migrating to this new button is as simple
as swapping out the name.
Because it's then really just ElevatedButton
instead of RaisedButton.
And if I saved this, this button is still being rendered
and I'm now using this ElevatedButton.
Now, one thing you can already see here is,
of course now that I migrated
or switched to this ElevatedButton,
we automatically have this blue background
and this white text color,
because the ElevatedButton,
behind the scenes automatically picks up
your main theme color set by your application.
And that is blue in this case here.
And therefore we automatically get this styling
which is in-line with our theme
which is one of the advantages of the new buttons,
we don't have to add styles manually,
we do get the base styling
fitting our theme out of the box.
But of course we can also still style them manually
to override the theme color or add other extra stylings.
And that's the biggest difference
between the old and the new buttons.
The old buttons had those extra arguments
which you could set for styling them like the text color
the border side ends on.
The new buttons don't have that.
Instead, the new buttons have a single new style argument
which you can set to then style this button.
And style wants a button style object,
which you construct by instantiating
the button style class.
And it's then this button style class
where you can set all kinds of styles for this button.
And here, for example, you got a background color
and you got a foreground color
and you would use these colors to control the text editor
well background color.
Foreground color sets the text
as you see background color sets to fill color.
So here, if you wanna have a RaisedButton
with a blue background color and the white foreground color,
we could set background color here
but then not to color start blue,
you don't use it like this.
Instead here, you then use material state property all
and then pass colors, stop blue to that.
Might look a bit strange,
but that is how you do then assign a color
to this background color argument here
for this button style object,
which we set as a style for this button.
And for the foreground color it's materials
state property all colors white.
And if we would set this,
then we would have this blue button still.
But if I for example, switch my background
color to orange and saved as
now we have the orange button.
So that's how we then style these new buttons
with this extra style argument
which takes such a button style object.
Now, since assigning styles
like this can be a bit annoying,
especially drilling into the colors like this
can be annoying, there is an alternative way
of deriving this style for this button.
You can use ElevatedButton, but then not instantiated
but instead called a style from method there.
And on this style from method, you then get a couple
of styling arguments like primary,
and you can then directly the set primary
to a color like colors blue.
And this will then affect all the parts of the button
that make up this button.
So for the ElevatedButton,
that button has a background color
and hence it's the background color
that's targeted bright primary.
You got up on primary argument to control the color
of the content on the primary color.
So in this case, the foreground color on the background
so you could dense it this two colors dot white.
And for example, change this to orange here
and now with that we would have a simplified way
of setting the background and the foreground color here.
And you can use either of the two approaches.
Create this button style object
and set background and foreground color,
which is very explicit, but a bit longer
or use this style from method to set primary
and on primary.
Now attached to this lecture, you also find a link
to the official button migration documentation,
a document which will also explore
how to migrate your buttons
and which we'll dig a bit deeper into styling these buttons.
And therefore you can check out that document as well.
Now that's the ElevatedButton,
which is our old RaisedButton.
Now for the FlatButton,
we now have them TextButton.
The TextButton replaces the FlatButton
and just like the ElevatedButton,
it doesn't have these individuals style arguments anymore.
Instead, it has one style argument,
and here again you set a button style by instantiating it
and then there you can set the foreground color
to control the text
and also still a background color,
if you wanna add a background color.
By default a TextButton does not have a background though,
because the idea behind that TextButton is
that it's just text no background color.
But alternatively to setting this button style
with foreground, and maybe background,
and maybe other styles,
you can also use TextButton style from here again,
and then here set primary
to colors dot blue or maybe orange.
So did we see a difference?
If I save this now the text is orange
and that's important.
Primary is not always the background color
instead primary really targets the primary thing
that makes up this button.
And for an ElevatedButton,
the primary element is the background
because that's the main thing that makes up ElevatedButton.
It's a button with a background
and therefore for primary targets that background.
And on primary targets, the foreground
or the TextButton, the primary element is the text
and hence primary targets the text color.
Here, we also have no on primary argument we could set
because the TextButton is about
not having a background color.
If you want the background color,
use an ElevatedButton.
So that's how we can translate the FlatButton.
Now for the OutlinedButton,
we have the new outlined button.
So the extra D here matters
and that will then replace your old OutlinedButton.
Here, we again don't have those individual style properties
instead, we can add the new style argument here,
and set this to a borders style again
where we then target the individual styling elements
like side for the border side.
So the border of color ends on
or we use OutlinedButton style from,
and then here again, we can, for example
set the primary color to colors dot orange.
And if we do that,
you will notice that now it's the text again
which is orange.
For restyling the border,
we have this site argument here,
and you can always use the auto-completion
to see which different arguments you can set here.
And that wants a border side object
which you construct by calling the borders site constructor
and then there, you can set the color of the border site.
So of the border overall.
And if you now save this, you have an orange border.
And that's how we can migrate
from the old buttons to the new buttons.
RaisedButton becomes ElevatedButton,
FlatButton becomes TextButton
and OutlinedButton becomes OutlinedButton with an extra D.
For simple cases where you don't set any colors or styling,
you can just swap the widget names
for more complex buttons,
where you do add your own colors or your own stylings.
There you instead add this style argument
instead of the individual style arguments.
And then there, you either create a button style object
with foreground background color and so on
or you use these style from methods,
on the button classes
to assign primary colors, background colors,
border colors and so on.
Now, as I mentioned,
you can stick to the old buttons as well.
They will definitely also stay around for many months
but you can, of course also migrate
to these new buttons instead,
because overall as you see,
migrating isn't too difficult in the end.
It's often just about swapping the names
or also about adding these extra style arguments
which then in the end also, aren't too difficult to use.